index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Hi, it's me, Henning
---

<div class="portrait">
  <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/profile.jpeg">
    <img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/profile_dark_small.jpeg" alt="portrait">
  </a>
</div>

I'm a freelance software and devops engineer with several years of
experience in development of full stack web applications. I've done
everything from frontend over backend to infrastructure.

I really like to tackle problems in a holistic way and to work together with
everybody in a (team|company|organization). I'm a scrum master, love to help
out in product management and to challenge ui designs.

Except from tech I'm into biking (human powered and motorized), running,
climbing and travelling around the world. I'm also a part time knife smith, at
least I try to become one.

After several years of living in Berlin I moved back to my hometown: Schwerin.

## Skills
- Coding
  - Node.js
  - PHP
  - C / C++ / Qt / C#
- Web
  - HTML5 / CSS3 / JS
  - Nginx / Apache
  - Varnish
- DevOps
  - Docker
  - Kubernetes
  - Mesos / Marathon
  - Ansible / Puppet
  - AWS / Google Cloud
  - Linux
  - Jenkins
- Tech
  - MongoDB / MySQL / MSSQL
  - Elasticsearch
  - Reddis / Memcache
  - Kafka / AMQP / RabbitMQ / Gearman
- Soft
  - Scrum Master
  - good listener

## Experience
- **2017-06 - 2018-10 - Software Engineer at [YEAY][yeay], Berlin**

  Joined the backend team to help with ongoing development of platform.
  Currently helping to refactor the backend architecture into micro service
  environment with kafka as central service bus.

  {Node.js, AngularJS, Parse, MongoDB, Elastichsearch, Kafka, Docker}

- **2016-12 - 2017-05 - Software Engineer at [MVCon InnovationLab][mvcon], Rostock**

  Helped to build a industry 4.0 work time scheduling service based on
  a event driven micro service architecture using CQRS and event sourcing.

  {Node.js, AngularJS, MongoDB, RabbitMQ, CQRS, Event Sourcing}

- **2016-09 - 2016-11 - Software Engineer at [Flexperto][flexperto], Berlin**

  Joined there development team to help to kick off a complete refactoring and
  cleanup of the backend. The target was to prepare for a separation of php
  ui frontend and api.

  {PHP, Yii, MySQL}

- **2015-01 - 2016-04 - Software and DevOps Engineer at [MDK Labs][mdk], Berlin**

  Developed full blown micro service architecture with custom MQTT broker to
  build a api driven IoT / communication backend running on bare metal and in cloud.
  Setup and maintained local dev environment and build / deployment chain.

  {Node.js, Reddis, RabbitMQ, MQTT, MongoDB, Git, Jenkins, Vagrant, Ubuntu, Ansible,
  Kubernetes, Mesos / Marathon, AWS, Google Cloud}

- **2012-10 - 2014-12 - Software and DevOps Engineer at [L'ArcoBaleno][lab] / [Pamono][pam], Berlin**

  Developed custom Magento theme and plugins to create unique e-commerce
  experience around vintage interior design and furniture. Setup and maintained
  local dev and staging environment and build / deployment chain in my DevOps role.

  {PHP, MySQL, Elasticsearch, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, Nginx, Jenkins, Vagrant, Puppet, Ubuntu}

- **2007-10 - 2012-10 - Team Lead UI Development and Software Engineer at [erento][ere], Berlin**

  Developed several internal tools and website features in my role as frontend
  and backend developer. Led the ui team and supported dev team self enhancement
  as scrum master. Also took over operation responsibilities as: maintenance of
  local development environment and build / deployment chain, controlling of hosting
  provider.

  {PHP, Zend Framework, MySQL, Elasticsearch, Memcache, RabbitMQ, Gearman, XHTML,
  CSS, JavaScript, SVN, Nginx, Apache, Varnish, Vagrant, Puppet, Ubuntu & Gentoo,
  Jenkins}

- **2004-10 - 2007-09 - Student and Software Engineer at [Clausmark Consulting][cmc], Karlsruhe**

  Developed SOAP and REST based application server and customized ERP Systems. Administered
  the web presence and migrated it to a CMS. Tested and verified software.

  {ASP, ASP.NET, MSSQL, OracleSQL, C++, Qt, C#, SVN, PHP, MySQL, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript}


## Education
- **2004-10 - 2007-09 - Diplom-Ingenieur (Berufsakademie) at [Baden-Württemberg Cooperative State University Karlsruhe][dhk], Karslruhe**
  <br>
  Graduated from Berufsakademie Karlsruhe (now Duale Hochschule Baden-Württemberg Karlsruhe)
  with a Dipl.-Ing. (BA) degree in *Informationstechnik - Schwerpunkt Netz- und Softwaretechnik*.
  That's comparable to a bachelor's degree in computer science.



[yeay]: https://yeay.com
[mvcon]: https://www.vote2work.com
[flexperto]: https://www.flexperto.com
[mdk]: https://web.archive.org/web/20160406235422/https://mdk.io
[lab]: https://web.archive.org/web/20150729162522/http://www.larcobaleno.com/
[pam]: https://www.pamono.com
[ere]: http://www.erento.com
[cmc]: https://www.clausmark.com
[dhk]: https://www.dhbw-karlsruhe.de

Commit message:

Add short flexperto gig to cv

index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Hi, it's me, Henning
---

<div class="portrait">
  <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/profile.jpeg">
    <img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/profile_dark_small.jpeg" alt="portrait">
  </a>
</div>

I'm a freelance software and devops engineer with several years of
experience in development of full stack web applications. I've done
everything from frontend over backend to infrastructure.

I really like to tackle problems in a holistic way and to work together with
everybody in a (team|company|organization). I'm a scrum master, love to help
out in product management and to challenge ui designs.

Except from tech I'm into biking (human powered and motorized), running,
climbing and travelling around the world. I'm also a part time knife smith, at
least I try to become one.

After several years of living in Berlin I moved back to my hometown: Schwerin.

## Skills
- Coding
  - Node.js
  - PHP
  - C / C++ / Qt / C#
- Web
  - HTML5 / CSS3 / JS
  - Nginx / Apache
  - Varnish
- DevOps
  - Docker
  - Kubernetes
  - Mesos / Marathon
  - Ansible / Puppet
  - AWS / Google Cloud
  - Linux
  - Jenkins
- Tech
  - MongoDB / MySQL / MSSQL
  - Elasticsearch
  - Reddis / Memcache
  - Kafka / AMQP / RabbitMQ / Gearman
- Soft
  - Scrum Master
  - good listener

## Experience
- **2017-06 - 2018-10 - Software Engineer at [YEAY][yeay], Berlin**

  Joined the backend team to help with ongoing development of platform.
  Currently helping to refactor the backend architecture into micro service
  environment with kafka as central service bus.

  {Node.js, AngularJS, Parse, MongoDB, Elastichsearch, Kafka, Docker}

- **2018-02 - 2018-03 - Software Engineer at [Flexperto][flexperto], Berlin**

  Implementing an internationalization layer in the existing backend of clients
  comunication platform.

  {PHP, Yii, MySQL}

- **2016-12 - 2017-05 - Software Engineer at [MVCon InnovationLab][mvcon], Rostock**

  Helped to build a industry 4.0 work time scheduling service based on
  a event driven micro service architecture using CQRS and event sourcing.

  {Node.js, AngularJS, MongoDB, RabbitMQ, CQRS, Event Sourcing}

- **2016-09 - 2016-11 - Software Engineer at [Flexperto][flexperto], Berlin**

  Joined there development team to help to kick off a complete refactoring and
  cleanup of the backend. The target was to prepare for a separation of php
  ui frontend and api.

  {PHP, Yii, MySQL}

- **2015-01 - 2016-04 - Software and DevOps Engineer at [MDK Labs][mdk], Berlin**

  Developed full blown micro service architecture with custom MQTT broker to
  build a api driven IoT / communication backend running on bare metal and in cloud.
  Setup and maintained local dev environment and build / deployment chain.

  {Node.js, Reddis, RabbitMQ, MQTT, MongoDB, Git, Jenkins, Vagrant, Ubuntu, Ansible,
  Kubernetes, Mesos / Marathon, AWS, Google Cloud}

- **2012-10 - 2014-12 - Software and DevOps Engineer at [L'ArcoBaleno][lab] / [Pamono][pam], Berlin**

  Developed custom Magento theme and plugins to create unique e-commerce
  experience around vintage interior design and furniture. Setup and maintained
  local dev and staging environment and build / deployment chain in my DevOps role.

  {PHP, MySQL, Elasticsearch, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, Nginx, Jenkins, Vagrant, Puppet, Ubuntu}

- **2007-10 - 2012-10 - Team Lead UI Development and Software Engineer at [erento][ere], Berlin**

  Developed several internal tools and website features in my role as frontend
  and backend developer. Led the ui team and supported dev team self enhancement
  as scrum master. Also took over operation responsibilities as: maintenance of
  local development environment and build / deployment chain, controlling of hosting
  provider.

  {PHP, Zend Framework, MySQL, Elasticsearch, Memcache, RabbitMQ, Gearman, XHTML,
  CSS, JavaScript, SVN, Nginx, Apache, Varnish, Vagrant, Puppet, Ubuntu & Gentoo,
  Jenkins}

- **2004-10 - 2007-09 - Student and Software Engineer at [Clausmark Consulting][cmc], Karlsruhe**

  Developed SOAP and REST based application server and customized ERP Systems. Administered
  the web presence and migrated it to a CMS. Tested and verified software.

  {ASP, ASP.NET, MSSQL, OracleSQL, C++, Qt, C#, SVN, PHP, MySQL, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript}


## Education
- **2004-10 - 2007-09 - Diplom-Ingenieur (Berufsakademie) at [Baden-Württemberg Cooperative State University Karlsruhe][dhk], Karslruhe**
  <br>
  Graduated from Berufsakademie Karlsruhe (now Duale Hochschule Baden-Württemberg Karlsruhe)
  with a Dipl.-Ing. (BA) degree in *Informationstechnik - Schwerpunkt Netz- und Softwaretechnik*.
  That's comparable to a bachelor's degree in computer science.



[yeay]: https://yeay.com
[mvcon]: https://www.vote2work.com
[flexperto]: https://www.flexperto.com
[mdk]: https://web.archive.org/web/20160406235422/https://mdk.io
[lab]: https://web.archive.org/web/20150729162522/http://www.larcobaleno.com/
[pam]: https://www.pamono.com
[ere]: http://www.erento.com
[cmc]: https://www.clausmark.com
[dhk]: https://www.dhbw-karlsruhe.de
